A Guide to Running a Python User Group
======================================

This guide is intended to be a simple collection of wisdom learned by
watching, participating in, and helping organize in-person Python
communities over the years. The target audience is anyone who wants to
make their user group better. It focuses on hands-on tips.

If you want to improve it, or you have an idea for new content to add,
or new questions to answer, email me: <asheesh@asheesh.org>!

Meetup.com or not
=================

*A story*: Two user group organizers were sitting next to each other
at the PyCon user groups birds of a feather session. One was talking
about how, nine months earlier, he had put together a Python user
group for his city. He created an email list, and advertised the
group, but never got more than a dozen people to show up. The one
sitting next to him created a group in the very same city, and quickly
saw meetings of 20+ people. Eventually, they found each other and
merged their groups.

*A recommendation*: In this guide, I strongly recommend your group use
Meetup.com. This is despite various reservations: their administration
panel makes it impossible for group organizers to find attendees'
email addresses, and the interface is always changing, to the chagrin
of some users. I personally remember the early days of Meetup.com,
when its free-of-cost group creation is what powered a political
campaign I cared about deeply. But I find user groups are larger, more
diverse, and have more co-organizers if they use Meetup.

Having said that, some user groups seem to do reasonably well with
their own event announcement software. A handful of those, such as
ChiPy in Chicago, also host Meetup.com pages so they can reach people
who use that site.

If you do use Meetup.com, the Python Software Foundation will
reimburse you for your yearly Meetup.com account fees. See a sample
grant application (forthcoming) on how to get that.

Lightning talks
===============

Lightning talks are brief talks, usually capped at five minutes, where
someone introduces a topic or tool they care about. This format keeps
the barrier to entry for speaking low, which means that as an
organizer, you can walk around and ask people, one-on-one, "What are
you going to give a lightning talk about?"

Montreal Python found that by focusing on lightning talks, the core
organizers didn't need to do much publicity for their group. Instead,
they asked the lightning talkers to invite their friends, and the group
grew and grew.

More about lighting talks:

* Montreal Python (PyCon 2011 talk)
* Why you should keep a strict time limit on lightning talks

Navigation aids
===============

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`

